docs: concepts folder (#5576)
langflow-ai/langflow: docs/docs/Concepts/concepts-playground.md

To post a message to a flow with a specific Session ID with curl:

```bash
curl -X POST \
    "http://127.0.0.1:7860/api/v1/run/4017e9f2-1fec-4643-bb05-165a8b50c4b3?stream=false" \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{"input_value": "message",
    "output_type": "chat",
    "input_type": "chat",
    "session_id": "YOUR_SESSION_ID"
}'
```

Check your flow's **Playground**. In addition to the messages stored for the Default Session, a new session is started with your new Session ID.

**Chat Input** and **Chat Output** components can also store a `session_id` parameter as a **Tweak** for specific sessions. The Playground will still display all available sessions, but the flow will use the value stored in the `session_id` tweak.

```bash
curl -X POST \
    "http://127.0.0.1:7860/api/v1/run/4017e9f2-1fec-4643-bb05-165a8b50c4b3?stream=false" \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
    -d '{"input_value": "message",
    "output_type": "chat",
    "input_type": "chat",
    "tweaks": {

>         "session_id": "YOUR_SESSION_ID"

Author: @edwinjosechittilappilly 

Like this:

```
curl -X POST "http://127.0.0.1:7860/api/v1/run/$FLOW_ID" \   
   -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
   -d '{
       "tweaks": {
           "session_id": "custom_session_123"
       },
       "input_value": "message",
       "input_type": "chat",
       "output_type": "chat"
   }'
{"session_id":"801abb1e-19b9-4278-9632-179b6d84f126","outputs":[{"inputs":{"input_value":"message"},"outputs":[{"results":{"message":{"text_key":"text","data":{"timestamp":"2025-01-10 15:34:27","sender":"Machine","sender_name":"AI","session_id":"801abb1e-19b9-4278-9632-179b6d84f126","text":"Absolutely! It sounds like you're ready to dive into something exciting. What kind of project or idea do you have in mind? Whether it's a new app, a creative writing piece, or even a machine learning model, I'm here to help you brainstorm, plan, and get started. Let’s turn your vision into reality!","files":[],"error":"False","edit":"False","properties":{"text_color":"","background_color":"","edited":"False","source":{"id":"OpenAIModel-Uksag","display_name":"OpenAI","source":"gpt-4o-mini"},"icon":"OpenAI","allow_markdown":"False","positive_feedback":"None","state":"complete","targets":[]},
```

>         "session_id": "YOUR_SESSION_ID"

Reviewer: Example of a curl with session id in tweaks:

curl -X POST \
    "http://127.0.0.1:7863/api/v1/run/5c20d8fd-0608-43a7-bbeb-51576a13c2f6?stream=false" \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json'\
    -d '{
    "output_type": "text",
    "input_type": "chat",
    "tweaks": {
  "ChatInput-XQaNK": {
    "session_id": "",
  }
}}'
    

But I suggest that if the session_id is given as a parameter in the API, then I believe the session ID in the tweaks would be overridden.
Let me confirm this information too
 
 @anovazzi1  What do you suggest? Should we mention about this (session id in tweaks), or should we just mention  about the session id in the Curl request:
 
 Example of a curl with session id in tweaks:

curl -X POST \
    "http://127.0.0.1:7863/api/v1/run/5c20d8fd-0608-43a7-bbeb-51576a13c2f6?stream=false" \
    -H 'Content-Type: application/json'\
    -d '{
    "output_type": "text",
    "input_type": "chat",
     "session_id":"Enter Session ID Here"
    "tweaks": { }
}}'

>         "session_id": "YOUR_SESSION_ID"

Reviewer 2: I believe we should mention about it only in the curl, the session Id in a component level is a feature that was not disabled for backwards compatibility but I believe we don't want to encourage others to use it

>         "session_id": "YOUR_SESSION_ID"

Author: Thanks @edwinjosechittilappilly and @anovazzi1 , I removed the guidance on using `tweak` to pass the session_id.

---
title: Playground
slug: /concepts-playground
---

import Icon from "@site/src/components/icon";

> The **Playground** is a dynamic interface designed for real-time interaction with LLMs, allowing users to chat, access memories, and monitor inputs and outputs. Here, users can directly prototype and their models, making adjustments and observing different outcomes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The **Playground** is a dynamic interface designed for real-time interaction with LLMs, allowing users to chat, access memories, and monitor inputs and outputs. Here, users can directly prototype their models, making adjustments and observing different outcomes.
```

As long as you have an [Input or Output](/components-io) component working, you can open it by clicking the **Playground** button.
The Playground's window arrangement changes depending on what components are being used.

![](/img/playground.png)

## Run a flow in the playgound

> When you run a flow in the **Playground**, Langflow calls the `/build/{flow_id}/flow` endpoint in [chat.py](https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/blob/main/src/backend/base/langflow/api/v1/chat.py#L162). This call retrieves the flow data, builds a graph, and executes the graph. As each component (or node) is executed, the `build_vertex` function calls `build_and_run`, which may call the individual components' `def_build` method, if it exists. If a component doesn't have a `def_build` function, the build will still return a component.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When you run a flow in the **Playground**, Langflow calls the `/build/{flow_id}/flow` endpoint in [chat.py](https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/blob/main/src/backend/base/langflow/api/v1/chat.py#L162). This call retrieves the flow data, builds a graph, and executes the graph. As each component (or node) is executed, the `build_vertex` function calls `build_and_run`, which may call the individual components' `def_build` method, if it exists. If a component doesn't have a `def_build` function, the build still returns a component.
```

The `build` function allows components to execute logic at runtime. For example, the [Recursive character text splitter](https://github.com/langflow-ai/langflow/blob/main/src/backend/base/langflow/components/langchain_utilities/recursive_character.py) is a child of the `LCTextSplitterComponent` class. When text needs to be processed, the parent class's `build` method is called, which creates a `RecursiveCharacterTextSplitter` object and uses it to split the text according to the defined parameters. The split text is then passed on to the next component. This all occurs when the component is built.

## View playground messages by session ID

When you send a message from the **Playground** interface, the interactions are stored in the **Message Logs** by `session_id`.
A single flow can have multiple chats, and different flows can share the same chat. Each chat will have a different `session_id`.

To view messages by `session_id` within the Playground, click the <Icon name="Ellipsis" aria-label="Horizontal ellipsis" /> menu of any chat session, and then select **Message Logs**.

> Individual messages in chat memory can be edited or deleted. Modifying these memories will influence the behavior of the chatbot responses.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Individual messages in chat memory can be edited or deleted. Modifying these memories influences the behavior of the chatbot responses.
```

To learn more about chat memories in Langflow, see [Memory components](/components-memories).

## Use custom Session IDs for multiple user interactions

`session_id` values are used to track user interactions in a flow.

> By default, if the `session_id` value is empty, it is set to the same value as the `flow_id`. In this case, every chat call will use the same `session_id`, and you’ll effectively have one chat session.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, if the `session_id` value is empty, it is set to the same value as the `flow_id`. In this case, every chat call uses the same `session_id`, and you effectively have one chat session.
```
